Alice.
Even if I'm not here...
I'm always with you.
No matter what happens,
my eyes are always on you.
Houston. This is Birdsong.
They are alive.
I must've passed out.
They're breathing.
I can see their breath!
But they were dead... Christ!
I can see their breath.
They are alive.
...passed out.
They're breathing.
I can see their breath!
They are alive.
They're breathing.
I can see their breath.
Daddy, sit down.
Sit down.
Listen.
Mummy died.
I'm sorry.
She died in the accident.
Excuse me?
Her body's still up there.
You just spent two days with her
at the cabin.
I heard it.
Mummy's alive.
She's just not with us.
We lost our mummy.
And there's another Alice.
It's her mummy who came back.
There's somewhere else.
Something to do with the CAL.
Alice.
Mummy has a mental illness.
Whatever she's told you, it's not true.
Mummy's alive.
You're wrong, Daddy.
There's something wrong
with the machine. The image is corrupted.
Show me.
The charges are
that Mr. Caldera shot
Commander Paul Lancaster
at 60556 Lexington Avenue
at approximately 21:05 on Monday
the 8th of November, 2021.
Furthermore,
that Mr. Caldera threw Mr. Ian Rogers
from the stern of the SS Bernice,
off the coast of Santa Barbara
at 23:35 on Sunday
the 17th of October, 2021,
causing the death by drowning
of said Mr. Rogers.
Go on.
Mr. Caldera says he's not the person
who committed these crimes.
Furthermore,
he requests a polygraph test
in order to establish his identity,
and the memory of these things.
I need you to compare my DNA
with the inhabitant
of Bud Caldera's apartment.
But you don't deny
that you are Henry Caldera.
I think we already established that who
I am not is Bud Caldera, so-called.
What I would suggest
is that these two gentlemen
are one and the same person.
With all respect, they are not.
I need you to establish
where Bud Caldera lives,
what his personal
and economic circumstances are.
In short,
I need help knowing what his life is.
Read this.
I didn't write this.
Well, Christ knows how much it cost.
Probably millions.
But she's taken a fucking axe
and given it 40 fucking whacks.
I'm sorry.
On behalf of the European Space Agency.
She's being treated.
We're going to dismiss her.
- Really?
- Yes.
I remember, back in '64,
first intake of lady astronauts.
They just finished their physical, right?
And Steven Winderuss,
the head of ops at the time,
he wrote a report discussing
the problem of women in space
and the intricacies of matching a
temperamental psychophysiological object,
i.e. a woman,
to a complicated machine,
i.e. a spacecraft.
It is a problem we never solved.
Henry, you're not concerned about this?
No.
No. What? It's a thing.
We got lives to live.
Alice?
What is happening?
Why am I locked in?
Why am I here?
You speak English? You speak Russian?
Wait. Wait, wait. Please!
Please. Wait, wait, wait. Please! Hello?
Just please come back! Please!
Has she got her phone?
I don't know.
Why don't you know?
I have to talk to her about some things.
I thought you thought she was dead.
Alice. Eat your breakfast.
- It tastes like shit.
- It does not taste like shit.
You've never tasted shit.
Look, you can't see your mother
if you keep believing all this rubbish
that she tells you.
This isn't PTSD.
It's not psychosis.
It's not schizophrenia.
That's what all schizophrenics
and psychotics say.
I need to get back to my daughter.
You play the piano, correct?
Play.
There was a fire at my cabin.
Before that...
I saw my daughter.
The real one.
I haven't seen her
since before I went into space.
Play.
Are you a mother?
You were traveling with your daughter.
She was very sick after the fire,
but now she's fine.
She's with her father.
I could smell her.
The real Alice.
I could smell my daughter. I could.
If this condition is not treated,
believe me, it will get worse.
Why would you stop me from seeing her?
Please.
She's my baby.
She's my baby and I lost her.
You're pregnant.
You know we have to perform pregnancy test
before administering lithium.
It can be very toxic for the fetus.
What?
- Normally, we would give you...
- Oh, no.
...1,800 milligram of lithium-7
to calm your symptoms,
but you're in the early stages
of pregnancy.
Four weeks.
We have designed
an alternative drug therapy to treat you,
but you must commit to it.
Otherwise we need to shock you again.
I can't have this child.
If I have this child,
how will I get back to her?
Please.
Take these pills.
I can see you are in pain.
I can handle pain!
This isn't madness.
I need to go back to her.
Do you understand? I can't be here.
What the fuck is that noise?
There is another guest.
You won't see this person.
Incurable.
Please don't go--
It's you.
There are flames...
Fire! Fire!
Capsule is on fire.
Forty. Forty-two.
I'm hot.
The world is the wrong way round.
Yeah?
Henry?
Yeah.
It's Irena.
I need to see you. It's urgent.
Have you ever met Ian Rogers?
I don't know who that is.
Have you ever been aboard the SS Bernice?
Not to my knowledge.
Did you meet with Paul Lancaster
at your home in East Hollywood?
I do not have a home in East Hollywood,
therefore I didn't meet
with Paul Lancaster.
Have you ever met Paul Lancaster?
Many times.
What were the circumstances
of your meeting him?
I don't recall the original circumstances,
but we were both employed by NASA,
doing the ISS program:
I as Chief Technician
on the Rocket Propulsion Laboratory,
he as an astronaut and mission commander.
Did you shoot Paul Lancaster?
No.
But I believe I may have killed him.
How?
I invented a machine that caused,
or rather allowed for, the circumstance
of a fatal accident in space.
I would love to hear you play.
Hello!
Ilya!
Did they ask you to come?
D-- Have you spoken to Magnus?
Did you see Alice?
I've been asking a lot of questions
about this condition.
Why don't you play?
I never heard you play the piano before.
Ilya, this might sound crazy,
but it's not a condition.
Listen, I've been reading
about Henry's work.
Do you know where Henry Caldera is?
What he's doing?
Maybe I could talk to him.
They call it "astronaut burnout."
Sense of dissociation. Paranoia.
Feeling that familiar places
and people are impostors.
It's happened many times.
Good news is they can medicate it.
Why did you come here?
Irena is sick.
She's hoping I take over.
There needs to be someone here
who can look after people.
Ilya,
I've heard recordings
of the radio transmissions
from her capsule.
It broke up in space.
She died.
Irena was the body that hit the ISS.
Paul didn't die. It was me.
Jo, if she was the body that hit the ISS,
how is it that she's here?
The same way as I'm here.
We came from somewhere else.
The most straightforward explanation
for the fact that you're both here
is that you both returned alive.
I don't remember her.
She's the head of Roscosmos,
and I don't remember her.
I don't remember the CAL.
I don't remember Henry Caldera.
I don't remember my daughter.
So there's something wrong
with your memory.
Go away.
There is so much for you here, Jo.
Stop grieving and get better.
Please.
If you don't get better,
you will only get worse.
I thought I saw her.
In the snow.
And for a moment, I was...
I was so happy to see her again.
I felt how much I missed her
and how much I loved her...
and how sorry I was.
And then she was gone.
I'm stuck in the middle.
And they're both going through things
that I have absolutely no idea about.
They've got secrets
that I'm not a part of.
I don't know how to move on from that.
And I don't know
how to move Alice on from that.
How do we get back together again?
Do you wanna get back together again?
Feels like we're all floating in space.
It just feels like
we're all floating in space.
Boy, I'll tell ya,
- this is better than what I'm used to.
- Henry.
You make me feel obscurely better.
What?
What's different?
Come on.
You know, a long time ago,
when I was in training,
Irena Lysenko, she went up to space.
And...
And she came back down in one piece.
And oh, my.
What a fine-looking girl she was.
I never met her.
But then I went away.
For a long time, I wasn't myself.
But that's when I recall hearing
that there was an accident up there
and, in fact,
Irena Valentina Lysenko suffocated
to death.
That's the illness
that makes you think that.
Henry, we both went through an accident.
Felt strange to come back.
It sure as hell was.
You said you felt another person
walking alongside you.
Someone has been sleeping in my bed
and wearing my clothes
and eating my fucking porridge.
Now, you're the expert.
Now, if I start taking these again,
is that going to smooth out
my little personality disorder?
Henry, what's the matter?
I'm not Henry.
Henry is gone.
And knock on wood, if I'm lucky,
he'll never be around again.
But he will remember who he was
and he will live my old age,
my addictions and my fucking failures.
You need to come back with me
to St. Sergius. I can help you.
No, I don't need help.
I am the guy who won the Nobel Prize.
I had my photo taken
with Reagan and Muhammad fucking Ali.
That's me.
And you can keep on denying it
and covering it up,
just like you always have.
Do you believe in ghosts?
I don't know.
Sometimes I think my dad is here.
I know he died,
but sometimes I think he's here.
Wendy, I think my mum's dead
and there's another one here who's alive.
I'd trade places with you.
Half alive and half dead
is better than all dead.
Maybe some people can be there
and not there.
What happened to your dad?
He was a bit crazy
at Mamma's funeral, whatever.
I don't know.
He went to see an astronaut and got shot.
He's in the hospital now.
I'm kind of sad.
I'm still sad about my mamma.
I think I saw her ghost.
Your dad's cool though.
He's grumpy.
He's a nice dad.
Yeah. I guess he is.
Daddy, I know it's all make-believe...
what she said.
I know she didn't die.
I'm very glad to hear you say that.
So, can we go see her?
Okay.
- Do you want the stuff in this box?
- What is it?
It's some things they found
outside the cabin.
Yeah.
That stuff's all marked "sitting room."
- Yeah.
- Yeah, good. Okay.
Alice, last chance.
You wanna check upstairs
so you haven't left anything?
Alice?
Can you hear me?
You wanna play a game?
Is Mamma there?
I wanna know
if I really saw her at the cabin.
Please?
I wanna talk to her. Please.
Well, we're going now.
Alice.
Bye.
There.
I'm not going to look for Mamma anymore.
Okay.
There is another Alice.
She's somewhere else.
She got Mamma instead of me.
Well, that's a great way to look at it.
I can't be angry at the other Alice
just for being luckier.
I'm very proud of you.
Am I brave?
You're incredibly brave.
My baby.
And the polygraph?
Passed with flying colors.
And the DNA?
If I am right,
mine twist in a different direction
from which you found at Bud Caldera's.
Nope. The DNA is exactly the same.
And the polygraph only proves that
you think that what you're saying is true.
It is true.
The truth is a rare commodity these days.
Has that passed you by?
Henry, also known as Bud Caldera,
I am formally charging you
for the murder of Ian Rogers
and the attempted murder
of Commander Paul Lancaster.
You do not have to say anything,
though it may harm your defense
if you do not mention when questioned
something which you later
rely on in court.
And so we move on to the night
of the so-called "double event."
Three weeks after
the murder of Annie Chapman,
September the 30th, 1888.
And it was a wet, miserable evening.
And extremely dark.
At 1:00 a.m...
the steward of the club steered his pony
and barrow through that arch,
into the passageway.
The pony shied to the left,
spooked by something lurking
in the shadows of the alley.
Jack the Ripper.
If we move on to the next location,
I can show you where.
What the fuck?
I'm a retired police officer.
I know.
Live your best life, Ian Rogers.
How are you?
Who are the men upstairs?
There is only one man.
Who is he?
The first man in space.
- What?
- Take your medication.
Play the piano.
Do things your body is familiar with.
It helps.
Otherwise, trust me,
you will break in two.
Did I die up there?
Can I get back?
Can I ever get back?
Are there two of you?
One dead, one alive?
Are there two of me?
How does that improve
our knowledge of ourselves?
But if this is what happens up there--
Enough.
You have a child here to be mother to.
And another, maybe, on the way.
Accept this and let go.
How could I?
I can't.
Because whatever it is,
it cannot be undone.
You cannot change it.
Ever.
It's done.
Live.
I've been thinking about the other Alice.
Uh-huh.
I think she feels that it's okay
and that you're here with me.
I feel that she thinks it's okay.
We both lost someone,
but we found someone too.
Doesn't mean we have to forget
the other one.
Just means we have to accept it.
Do we accept it?
You're a remarkable young person, Alice.
Your mother would be
incredibly proud of you.
Are you proud of me?
Yeah.
I need a mummy.
I need an Alice.
That's me. Mummy, that can be me.
This is what I saw.
This is what collided with the ISS.
Alice drew this.
Well, she probably heard you talking
about it.
I'm trying to be rational, Magnus.
My husband is here.
My daughter is here.
It's obviously the same world that I left.
But what?
I'm gonna start taking the pills
if it means that I--
I won't be living on this knife edge.
If it means that I can come home
and be with you guys.
And what about this baby?
You always wanted another,
but we haven't talked about it
since before you went into space.
Are we in any fit state to have it?
Do you want to have it?
Do you?
My name is Irena Valentina Lysenko.
I'm Executive Controller of Roscosmos.
In 1967,
I became the second woman in space.
Since that time under the USSR,
and since the fall of Communism,
it has been my burden
and my responsibility
to conceal a basic fact
about space travel.
That it drives people mad.
We know this.
You know this.
We pretend it's not true,
but very many of us see and hear things
that cannot be explained...
perhaps not even by calling it "madness."
I'm asking whether you might be willing
to report any of your own issues
anonymously to me.
Paul. Paul.
Paul, let go.
- I've seen something!
- Let go!
I am sorry.
Things are different.
Magnus, do I seem like your Jo?
No.
I love you.
I love you,
and I want you more than I did.
Me too.
Can I sit with you?
Sure.
Thank you for taking care of her.
Here.
What's your name?
Irena Valentina Lysenko.
But my friends call me Valya.
Down the rabbit hole with you, Alice.
Alice!
To infinity and beyond!
Just give me a minute, yeah?
Mamma?
Yeah?
Can I ask you a question?
If what happened happened--
If I'm from here and Daddy's from here
and you're from there...
where's the baby gonna be from?
Alice, even if I'm not here...
I'm always with you...
and Daddy.
I don't think you understand how much I--
I just wanted to be around
and see you grow up.
No matter what happens...
my eyes are always on you.
And my heart...
beats with you, baby.
I love you so much.
More than you can ever imagine.
My love.